Hello and welcome to Unit Testing for unity.
In this workshop we're looking at the character class in an advanced version.
Let's take a look at this demo in action.
Here we're going to open up our unity.
We're going to open up our sample project.
And we're going to take a look at a scene inside for the character advanced situation here I want to
talk a little bit about code separation.
Earlier in one of the workshops, I talked about the different dependencies that you'd have.
For example, if you're calling a back end server.
And in that situation, we used a substitute library to mock out and not need to call the back end.
It's a similar discussion here where we're looking at what are the dependency involved with a particular
test scenario, and how do we be aware of those different dependencies, and what do we want to do about
it?
Here we're not going to use the substitute library.
We're going to think about separating our monobehaviour from other code and taking a look.
So here we are inside unity.
We've got a production class.
Let's take a look at it.
Running.
Down here, we see that we can move around with our arrow keys.
Just like in the basic example, the end user experience is the same.
And that's something of an interesting example here, that some of the changes that we do for the code
quality and testability of our systems doesn't necessarily impact the end user.
That's a positive.
So let's take a look at the production code here.
We'll open up the character advanced example.
Here's a complete example.
What we're doing inside the wake of this example class is we're creating a primitive for the cube.
We give it a name for organization sake.
Then instead of one line here where we just add a component that has all of our functionality, we do
two steps.
This is reminding me a little bit of the dependency injection we saw in the My Data loader example.
But this is a different use case with different dependencies.
So instead of just one add component line we do the add component.
And then we create our own non monobehaviour character advanced class.
And we pass in the Monobehaviour.
So we're passing in the dependency that the character advance is going to use.
Now character advanced is not a monobehaviour, and thereby we have more flexibility with how we want
to test it.
We could test it at edit mode, for example, more easily.
Again, whenever you're using Monobehaviours that's more appropriate for play mode tests.
It's not a hard rule, but that's one way to think about it.
So here, by separating our monobehaviour from our non monobehaviour, we've got a few more options.
Now we're still here in a play play mode environment because this is the production code.
Let's step in and see how our source code is changed.
So here we are in the character advanced.
You'll see that it looks pretty familiar.
Most of the code in here is going to be just like the previous basic example, a few exceptions.
One is that the character advanced is going to take in a reference in its constructor to the Monobehaviour.
This is because it needs to know some things about the Monobehaviour, particularly around its transform
position.
There's also a situation where we need to use the second line and tell the Monobehaviour a reference
back to us as the character advanced.
This is just so that the Monobehaviour, whenever it calls update can tell us to do the proper move.
There's other ways you could organize this, but for simplicity's sake, we're passing in the monobehaviour
and handling it this way.
Let's see what other changes we see in the code base.
The move type is the same as the basic.
The move by input is the same.
Down here the move by key code is very similar if not identical.
And then down here in the move to and move by, you can notice that we are getting and setting the position
on the transform of the Monobehaviour.
So again we have mostly a non monobehaviour class here doing what it can do without any dependency on
Monobehaviour and only in the most necessary spots does it address the Monobehaviour.
That separation begins to help us think about how could we test just the monobehaviour if we could,
how could we test just the non monobehaviour if we could?
Now, this isn't a perfect example because it's kind of the mid step as we're going along learning about
how we can properly separate these.
But I think it's a good learning.
So look at the source code here for character advanced.
Compare it to character Basic on your own time and see the differences there.
Then let's take a look at the example that we do.
Again.
Here's the example that we saw.
So it's these two lines.
That's really the key.
We're going to add a component of the character advanced Monobehaviour onto our game object.
And then we're going to create a new character advanced.
That's a separate step.
So you could imagine we would be able to test those two things in isolation.
Now they are quite dependent on each other.
There's ways that we could massage that.
So that one does not directly depend on the other.
Or we could do something like we did in the data loader example and use a substitute library so that
we're mocking in the dependency instead.
But again, for simplicity of just learning how to separate a monobehaviour apart, I think we've done
the case here.
You can run those tests with the edit mode and the play mode on your own time and take a look at this.
But for me, I think we're done talking about the differences in separating monobehaviour and non monobehaviour.
Thanks.